# About this portfolio
This is a collection of my personal data analysis projects which I'm going to keep adding to along my journey in data analytics and visualization. 
Here's a [link](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/angela.jones1086#!/) to the visualizations I've been doing on Tableau Public. I joined recently and am slowly adding to them by taking part in MOOCs and participating in community projects like #MakeoverMonday and #VOTD.

My projects are separated into different folders depending on their focus and/or purpose. 

### R and RMarkdown: Science on Stage
The `science-on-stage` folder contains the work I did to clean, process and analyse user data from the Clickmeeting and Microsoft Teams APIs for [Science on Stage's](https://www.science-on-stage.de/) webinars while volunteering for them as a data analyst through [CorrelAid](https://correlaid.org/), posted here with their permission. There are two RMarkdown scripts - one for cleaning and preparing the data for analysis and one for carrying out the analysis - and one example report generated with RMarkdown. This report is compiled from the corresponding RMarkdown script using two R scripts: the first, `clickmeeting_renderhelp.R`, creates some of the functions used for the paramatrized report functionality, while the second, `render_clickmeeting_html.R` actually generates the html report (the report could also be generated as a Microsoft Office Word document using a very similar function, but I have not included that script here as it is basically the same as the one for the html report, just using a different rendering function). 

Although I was responsible for the bulk of this work, I was part of a cross-functional team and have marked the script sections contributed by my team members accordingly. The corresponding report visualizing this data is also posted with the company's permission; note that it has been generated using entirely synthetic data for demonstration purposes and does not represent the actual user profiles of Science on Stage e.V. webinars. 

An important focus of this work was also to design the data processing and reporting system so that it was semi-automatic (i.e., only required the click of a button and minimal modifications for special requirements) and easily useable and understandable by non-technical users, hence the use of parameters for filtering the data desired in each report. The scripts are mostly in German because this is the working language of the company, though they decided that some parts did not need to be translated and were understandable in English. The filtering parameters and the contents of the reports were selected through regular discussions with our liasion to Science on Stage, in an iterative process through which we worked together to narrow down what they needed to know and how they preferred this information to be displayed, as well as helping to educate our contact person on the possibilities and limitations of our analyses. This was an excellent learning experience all-around: I got to exercise some R skills which I had not needed to before (e.g., parametrized reports, making maps, working with date-time data) and gain exposure to different kinds of data and teammates with new skillsets I had not worked with, and our contact person gave us good feedback, mentioning that she felt that she had gained a better understanding of what is possible with data analytics and how much our work had cut down on the time and personnel resources needed to find and compile the information they wanted, along with great improvements in the quality of the compiled data. 

### SQL
The `SQL` folder contains projects that I completed as part of MOOC courses to develop my SQL skills (e.g., through Dataquest and Coursera). These are 'toy' business problems that nonetheless are designed to demonstrate competence in solving real-world issues. Such problems often require several different skills other than SQL (e.g., data visualization and statistical analysis), so these projects also integrate them where appropriate. The SQL dialects I have learned so far are SQLite and MySQL, as well as Teradata to a lesser extent. 

### Machine learning
My machine learning projects are - you guessed it - in the `machine-learning` folder. I will be adding to this using datasets and problems from Kaggle and other sources to explore and build skills in several different kinds of supervised machine learning to start, but I plan to work my way up to unsupervised machine learning techniques as well. 

## Goals for the future
For now, I have decided to focus on building my analytics skills (aside from SQL) using R, because I am already very comfortable with it and I think it's better to build up a thorough understanding of more advanced techniques such as machine learning from a solid base. Once I understand how such techniques work, it will be easier to work with them in another language like Python. I do plan to learn to program in Python in future though, focusing on the data science-specific packages, and I am thinking of eventually exploring Julia as well, but that probably won't happen anytime soon. 
