# Active learning strategies in child- and adulthood: a brief summary of my PhD work
In this section of my portfolio, I want to summarise what my PhD work was about in general, and explain the results of a few of the studies I ran. This section is intended for anyone who is curious about this kind of research and just wants to get a general feeling for it.
For those who want a little bit more depth on some of the theory or technical details, I have added/am in the process of adding collapsible sections with that information, but you don't need to read them to understand everything.

Navigate directly to a specific subsection here:
- [What is active learning?](#what-is-active-learning)
- [Active learning in the lab](#active-learning-in-the-lab)
- [Why do active learning strategies change with age?](#why-do-active-learning-strategies-change-with-age)

# What is active learning?
Before getting into the main questions I tried to answer through my research, let's think about what **active learning** actually means.
Depending on your background, it could mean many different things, but in my field, it refers to **self-directed** learning. In other words, active learning refers to any kind of learning process where the learner is the one who decides what to look at next and when, when they're trying to learn something.
One of the most direct ways to illustrate this is to think of question asking. Asking questions is a very effective way to find information, and everyone from young children to adults makes use of this **learning strategy**. 
During a question asking exchange, the learner is the one who decides what they want to know and who they want to ask for information - the one who answers doesn't usually decide for them. Of course, in practise, these situations aren't quite as one-sided as that and there are many factors to consider, like the thoroughness of the answer, the informer's reliability, and how on-topic the answer was, but it's useful to think of them in this black and white way if you're just interested in the learning strategy. 

A **learning strategy** is the approach chosen by the learner to reach a certain learning goal. This could be just wanting to learn some facts. For example, what's a dhole? What would _you_ do to find out? Nowadays, most people would probably just Google it. This in itself is still a learning strategy though: you have a question, you know where to start looking for the answer (Google), you type the search query and then quickly evaluate the first few results to choose a link to click on and read its content, then store the information in your memory bank (for reference, a dhole is an endangered species of Asian wild dog related to the African wild dog). And voilá, learning strategy executed. 
If the word _strategy_ brings to mind chess and other games with many convoluted steps for you, then this might not seem like much, but it still counts. Consider also what might happen with broader or more long-term learning goals or problems; what if your goal is to learn how to knit or to learn how to code? You'd need to come up with a long-term, multi-step strategy to do that.

## Active learning in the lab
However, these kinds of goals are too complicated to study in the lab right now. Instead, we focus on the kinds of active learning that children naturally engage in while learning about their world growing up. If you're asking yourself why we would bother to focus on this instead of trying to tackle questions about learning that are more relevant to our adult lives, my short answer is that in order to understand how we, as adults, learn on our own, we need to understand how we did it as children. Children are champion learners, learning to walk, talk and understand basic physics like the effects of gravity and relative size, all within the first 2-4 years of their life. Adults teach and guide them, but children have a lot of control over their learning process and will not learn anything an adult is trying to teach them if they're not interested in it. In addition, the current educational interest in making classroom activities more interactive, more "active" for children, thinking that this will boost learning, is another reason why we should be studying how children naturally learn, so we can adapt educational methods appropriately. Unfortunately, this field of research is not yet advanced enough to apply any of our insights directly to the classroom, but it's important to keep studying active learning so that it is possible in future.

To illustrate how researchers study children's learning strategies, let's go back to thinking about games, because most research on active learning with children takes the form of games. One of the most well-known is the **20 Questions game**. In case you haven't heard of it, the 20 Questions game usually has at least two players: a question asker and an informant, who answers the questions. There are some sets of items between the players, for example faces, that can be split into different categories (e.g., male/female, glasses/no glasses, hair/bald...). The game goes roughly like this: in each round, the informant chooses one of the items (e.g., the bald man with glasses and a beard), and the question asker has to ask only yes/no questions (i.e., where the answer can only be yes or no) to find out which item the informant chose (the "target"). 

This is a fun game that can be played casually but is also very useful from a scientific perspective because it allows researchers to see what kinds of strategies question askers use at different ages, and how efficient they are (i.e., how many questions are needed to find the target - the fewer the better). Learners who stick to asking about _categories_ of items (e.g., is it a man?) tend to find the target faster than those who ask about one item at a time (e.g., is it that woman with glasses and red hair?) because each question allows them to eliminate several possibilities at once. Studies using this game to investigate how 5- to 10-year-old children approach this task have shown that 5- to 7-year-olds tend to only ask about one item at a time, while 7-to 10-year-olds start using more efficient strategies by asking about categories of items, with 10-year-olds behaving almost like adults, who almost always ask about item categories.

This tendency to move from relatively inefficient learning strategies to more efficient ones based on more abstract thinking has been found across many kinds of tasks within this age range, with important shifts happening at age 5, 7, and 10. So, these ages seem to be key milestones in the development of learning strategies. But why? 

# Why do active learning strategies change with age? 
Considering the ages at which major changes in learning strategies happen, it's a no-brainer to think of brain maturation and the development of key cognitive skills like verbal skills, memory, and executive functions (this refers to the set of skills that allows us to pay attention to relevant things and block out irrelevant ones, make plans, and change our priorities on the fly). It's likely that these things are very important factors in these changes but we don't have a clear picture of which cognitive skills enable which kinds of learning strategies or why. 

Another way to think about this issue is from a computational standpoint. In other words, deconstructing active learning strategies into building blocks, and then making abstract models of what these building blocks look like in children, by getting them to do various learning tasks in the form of games. Once broken down in this way, we can see which of the building blocks might change with age. This is the way I went during my PhD, rather than concentrating on cognitive skills. 



